1. Setup "index.js" and "app.js" files to initialize the server and express. (see code from zip file "Basic Backend Setup.zip")

2. Create "api-response.js" and "api-error.js" files inside utils folder to handle API responses and errors in a structured way.

3. Create an "index.js" file inside ""db" folder to setup mongoose connection with MongoDB database. 

4. Import databse connection in "index.js" file to ensure database is connected when server starts.

5. Write the healthchecks in "controllers and routes"

6. Create different models in "models" folder as per your requirement.

7. Use "bcrypt" in your user model to hash passwords before saving them to the database.

8. Create methods to compare hashed passwords during login.

9. Use "jsonwebtoken" and write methods to create access and refresh tokens upon user login inside your user model.

10. Create method to generate temporary tokens for password reset functionality or email verification inside your user model.

11. Create a "mail.js" file inside "utils" folder to setup creation of mails(not sending).

12. Go to Mailtrap website and create a free account to get SMTP settings for sending emails.

13. In .env file setup these:-
    MAILTRAP_SMTP_HOST=smtp.mailtrap.io
    MAILTRAP_SMTP_PORT=2525
    MAILTRAP_SMTP_USER=your_mailtrap_username
    MAILTRAP_SMTP_PASSWORD=your_mailtrap_password

14. Now in ""mail.js" file use "nodemailer" to setup transporter(for sending emails) using above SMTP settings from .env file.

15. Now create a "sendEMail" function inside "mail.js" file to send emails using nodemailer transporter and "mailgen" to generate nice looking email templates.

16. Create "auth.controllers.js" file inside "controllers" folder to handle user registration, login, password reset, etc.

17. Create "auth.routes.js" file inside "routes" folder to define routes for authentication related operations.

18. Now we need to create "auth.middleware.js" file inside "middlewares" for verifying JWT tokens and protecting routes. It is necessary to logging out the users.

19. While logging out the user, we need to invalidate the refresh token and also delete the cookie from the browser because the cookie contains the access token and refresh token.

20. Create other controllers, routes, and middlewares as per your project requirements.